

#Machine Learning is part of Data Science. It depicts aspects of statistics and algorithms to work on the data generated and extracted from multiple resources. Most of the data get generated in huge amounts and it becomes tiresome for a data scientist to work on it. That is when Machine Learning comes into action. ML is the strength given to a system to learn and process data sets autonomously without human intervention. This is achieved through complex algorithms and techniques like regression, supervised clustering, naive Bayes and more.

#Machine learning and statistics are elements of data science. The term learning in Machine Learning means that the programs depend on some data, used as a training set, to fine-tune some model or algorithm parameters. This includes many techniques such as regression, naive Bayes or supervised clustering. Data science is much more than machine learning though. Data, in data science, may or may not come from a machine or mechanical process (survey data could be manually collected, clinical trials involve a specific type of small data) and this task might have nothing to do with learning.

#Artificial intelligence (AI) is the simulation of human intelligence in machines. The machines are programmed to think and perform actions just like humans do. In this case, machines learn and solve problems through supervised, unsupervised, or reinforced learning. Machine Learning and Deep Learning fall under the purview of AI. Artificial Intelligence functions on massive amounts of data. Whether it’s through system matrix, web matrix, or social media, there’s no dearth of data about the market or the customers. All this acts as raw material for AI systems to make efficient decisions about marketing your product/service. Automating the marketing process helps in increasing sales - New-age marketing requires you to show those products to the customers that they want to see.

#Artificial Intelligence is transforming and disrupting many industries and markets. Around the world, governments and companies are proclaiming we are entering the “era of AI” with the rapid development of intelligent devices that can recognize faces and interact via speech, robots that can work alongside people to help automate warehouse logistics and manufacture goods, algorithms that can generate novel photo realistic images and music, computers that can provide decision support to clinicians to help detect cancer more reliably, and so much more.

As computers continue to automate more and more routine tasks, inequity of education remains a key barrier to future opportunities where success depends increasingly on intellect, creativity, empathy, and having the right skills and knowledge. This accelerating change raises the critical question of how to best prepare students, from children to life-long learners, to be successful and to flourish in the era of AI.
